Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse. I thought we would
go live since Bitcoin is
essentially having its date with Destiny
right now. Um,
so
we'll see what's going on.
Just give me a minute to get things set
up.
How's everyone doing?
All right. Um, so
hold on. I must
Right.
So, let me see if I can share my screen.
All right. So, here we are. Uh, Bitcoin
is is essentially having its date with
destiny right now, I think. Let's go
take a look. So, we'll pull up the uh
the 200E moving average. Um, so the 200E
moving average is around 61.8K
and we're currently at around 62.8K.
So, we're about $1,000 off the date with
Destiny. So, uh I know it's kind of
late, but go out, get the flowers. our
date is almost has almost arrived. And
the other thing to remember too is that
a lot of times, you know, June marks
lows in the market, right? It does. And
so if
one of the things that I think a lot of
people often do is they will sort of
dunk on the bearish narrative up here
and then they're they're the ones that
end up capitulating as as Bitcoin comes
down. And then when Bitcoin then bounces
from that capitulation low, they then
get mad at the people that told them the
market was bearish up here. I don't know
if you guys have seen that play out, but
it plays out a lot where, you know, the
the the natural time to dunk on the
bears is in these counter trend rallies
and um and then those people finally get
the memo when the market drops. They
panic sell and then the market has
another counter trend rally and then
they get mad at the people that told
them it was a counter trend rally before
the drop. So, it is a brutal cycle. And
one thing to remember, and I I just want
to kind of remind people of this is that
it it often can take about 20 weeks plus
or minus a few weeks in bare markets to
set new lows. And so while one of the
prevailing narratives for Bitcoin this
year has been that these counter trend
rallies are different and that you know
it it we shouldn't rely on the past uh
because the narratives are different
this time. But if you look at at prior
bare market rallies like if you look at
the one in 2022 before a new low it took
about 21 weeks in 2018. From the
February low, it took about 19 weeks.
And then from the June low, it then took
another about 20 weeks to then put in a
new low and to kind of confirm that the
bare market was still intact. So right
now, it's been about 17 weeks. So, you
know, everything that you're seeing
right now is still perfectly normal,
right? Like it it it's still perfectly
normal. like this is what we have seen
happen many many times in the past. Uh
it'll probably happen many many times in
the future as well. And I I just wanted
to you know like remind people that
you know that this is this is the way
the cycle works right it tricks you into
believing this time is different. Um,
and and what it'll do is it'll it'll
Bitcoin will go up long enough to
essentially convince everyone that, you
know, that we're going into a super
cycle, that we're going into an alt
season or a banana zone or whatever the
flavor of the month is is what they want
to call it.
But then the market just kind of gives
back all those gains. And I think one of
the difficult things too about bare
markets that are are really mentally
taxing even for the bears is that for so
much of the bare market, you'll actually
slowly trend up, right? I mean, I know a
lot of these weeks in here are red, but
Bitcoin has essentially been putting in
higher lows since early February. And so
then you get several months of sort of
bulls dunking on bears and then you just
get like a few weeks where the bears get
to be like, "All right, see there was
some there was some validity to those
reasons to to the sort of the outlook
that we provided back then." And just
because the the bulls couldn't see it
didn't mean that it it wasn't there. So
hopefully people can kind of use this as
a as a framework for for future bare
markets to just remember that a lot of
times like it's not different, right? A
lot of times the cycle just plays out
how it usually does and and with Bitcoin
rallies to the 200 day moving average
are are very common in bare markets,
right? I mean it you could argue it it
wouldn't be a bare market if we didn't
have a rally to a to the 200 day moving
average and a subsequent rejection off
of it. So for me, you know, I look at I
I look at these rejections off the 200
day moving average and I'm like, is this
different?
Last cycle, the rejection occurred in in
like March, April, and the cycle before
that we we actually had a rejection in
August and also in May, right? We had a
rejection in May and what happened is
Bitcoin then swept the February low,
right? So, a lot of similarities still
where you have a a low in February, a
higher low in late March, early April, a
a high in May, and then you get you you
then sort of form a capitulation low in
the month of June. So, you know, if
you're over there and you were bulling a
few weeks ago and now your natural
instinct is to go panic sell, you're
you're just you're doing the wrong
things. you know, you you sell into
strength if you're going to sell, not
into weakness, because, you know,
there's a good chance that that at some
point this month, Bitcoin will find a
low and then bounce off of that low into
July, August. And my guess
is that, and again, I I'm just guessing
I I don't really have any great track
record for making short-term predictions
for Bitcoin, right? I mean, it's it's
hit or miss. Sometimes I get it right,
sometimes I get it wrong. You guys have
seen me be right about short-term moves.
You've seen me be wrong about short-term
moves. I don't think I necessarily have
an edge in predicting where Bitcoin is
going to go in the very very short term,
right? Because, as I've said, it's more
like a random walk or geometric brownie
in motion. And you can't really hope to
predict it. We can talk about when the
most likely lows are going to occur,
when the most likely highs are going to
occur, but it is it's very difficult to
know exactly when the bottom will be and
exactly when the top will be. So, what
I'm thinking what I'm thinking is the
most likely outcome is that you had your
you know, you had sort of the first
phase, the bare market, which was late
last year. We've been in the second
phase for a while and I I would guess
we're about to enter the third phase of
the bare market. I I would argue that
there will likely be one more counter
trend rally before the actual low. And
you know, when I looked when I looked at
this year
back in in December, January, I remember
looking at at all these midterm years
and being like, man, it's going to be a
hard year to get through because I'm
going to remain bearish and and you're
likely going to have a lot of counter
trend rallies to kind of to pull you off
sides. And it it's hard kind of seeing
that. But the way that I was sort of
coping with it was just buying other
things, you know, buying manufacturing,
buying energy stocks, um buying emerging
markets. That that's how I essentially
cope with the what do you do in bare
market years when Bitcoin just goes down
but gives you counter trend rallies that
last long enough that can almost
convince you that you're wrong. It
wouldn't be a bare market if if the
bears weren't weren't made to look like
fools. I have not seen a single bare
market where the bears do not look like
complete morons. That's what makes it a
bare market is when the bears look dumb
for so much of the bare market. So, and
you can see, you know, you can see how
the structure of the market changed
here. When you look at this, you'll see
that in the bull market, Bitcoin would
sort of trend down and then break
higher. trend down, break higher, trend
down, and then break up. And then when
we got the peak, everything changed,
right? Then you break down quickly and
then you trend up. You break down
quickly and then you trend up. It's the
reverse, right? It's the reverse of the
bull market. The bull market was you
trend down for months and then you break
up and you make the bulls look like
they're dumb, but it was really the
bears. And in the in the bare market,
you make the bears look dumb because you
spend so many months trending up.
And then once everyone's convinced that
the bears are are are idiots, are
morons, have no clue what they're
talking about, everyone that was then
bearish becomes bullish and then you get
sort of the breakdown um to the next
sort of to the, you know, to the next
low whenever whenever that might be. And
again, my my guess is that it's going to
occur in June. That would be my guess.
We are getting close to that 200E moving
average. You know, last cycle we did go
below the 200week moving average. So,
I'm not here to convince you that we
have to find support at it. But what I
am here to say is that June will likely
mark a low. You got June 2018, you've
got June 2022. Now, in 2018, the low in
June occurred the week of June 18th. in
2022.
It occurred the week of June 13th. So,
as I said yesterday,
probably a late night in the middle of
June as as heat waves says, uh, is
probably when the low's going to be. Um,
and then I I could see, you know, what
what often happens in midterm years for
Bitcoin is that you'll get this big drop
into the summer and then volatility will
like dry up for like the rest of the
summer and and you'll you'll essentially
watch crypto sort of slowly drift higher
in July and and maybe even into August,
but there's often not a lot of
volatility associated with it, right?
Like it just kind of slowly goes up. Um,
and that's I mean you could have a you
could have a nice rally in July. I'm not
here to say that you can't. I mean look
at the rally we just had. But the point
is is that if you're thinking about how
how the bare market plays out, you have
your first low that occurs in sort of
late Q4, your second low in February.
The next low is likely June, the current
month, right? That's the n the next
likely low. And then again, and this is
subject to change, the market cycle
bottom low would likely be in Q4 likely.
Now, I'm I would predict at this point
that when the low in June is formed, my
guess is that then we're going to then
spend the next like couple of months
debating whether that was it or we have
to get another low. There's going to be
a lot of people that are going to say,
well, the four-ear cycle is broken. But
really, I mean, you could see Bitcoin
bottom out soon and the four-year cycle
remain intact. It's not a perfect
science. I mean, I I would guess that
the low would be in October, but it
could come sooner. It also could come
later. You know, I I I I would just say
that October is the most likely
scenario. to kind of draw out what I
mean. If we were to plot like a chart,
okay, and this is just like a, you know,
x-axis y axis chart. If you were to say,
"All right, what is the likelihood that
the low will be in June versus say, you
know, um I mean, you got July, August,
let's just say August, September,
October,
and then let's say December, and then
let's just take it out into 2027, so
February." So if if you were looking at
when will the low likely occur,
I would think of it as like a a
distribution, right? where the most
likely time for the low is probably
October, right? Probably. But that
doesn't mean it's a 100% chance. There's
also going to be a chance that, you
know, it occurs in August or September.
And so to just kind of draw out those
probabilities, you know, it might look
something like this. Um,
and and just kind of drawing it out like
so. So you basically would just have
this distribution
like this. I I think you probably you
probably probably see what I'm saying if
you taken any of these like math
classes. So basically the the odds would
look something like this. So you
basically just have this this normal
distribution and this is basically like
what's the probability of the low
occurring is essentially what we're what
we're asking. the probability of the low
occurring. Um,
and you know, you don't actually need to
know what the y- axis, you know,
quantitatively. It's just qualitatively,
right? So, when I say the low is most
likely October, what I'm essentially
saying is that's the most likely month,
but it doesn't have to be the month.
What would make it different than
October? could be a useful exercise to
go through, right? What would what would
make it different? And and you might
say, well, why like why would it be
different? It probably won't be, but if
there are occasions in history, if you
look at the history of the four-year
cycle in the stock market and whatnot,
you'll see that often times October is
the low for the markets, but
occasionally it occurs sooner, right?
Occasionally it occurs earlier in the
year. Um, let me pull up another chart
here so we can take a look at that. Uh,
let's go to Trading View. And we got the
S&P.
Let me just pull this up and I'll move
it over to the other screen.
All right. So, here's another here's
another window. And so, what we're going
to do is we're going to pull up the S&P
and say, "All right, well, tell me more
about the four-year cycle." Like, when
does it when does it bottom? Well, as
you can see, in the in the 60s and 70s
and 80s and whatnot, you had lows
approximately every four years. And in
1966, it occurred in October. And in
1974, it occurred in October. But in
1970,
it actually occurred in late May, early
June. Right? So,
I'm not here to say that you can't have
a low occur sooner than October. It is
possible,
but I think you would need to see a, you
know, truly a sufficient capitulation to
fully to fully reset all of the onchain
metrics and all that stuff. And if
something like that were to happen, then
I think it would be foolish to remain
bearish.
If it's just a retest of 60K,
if if if let's just say it plays out
like it did in 2018 where we we
basically just retest the $6,000 level,
okay? Because there's a chance that
that's what happens. Maybe we wick below
it like we did in June of 2018.
Is that going to be enough to justify
the end of the bare market?
Maybe. But I don't think anyone with a
clear conscience could say that it would
definitively be in, right? That the low
would definitively be in because we
would all be looking at the charts and
being like, "Okay, that's great, but
what about Q4?" Because every bare
market low tends to occur in Q4 with the
exception of 2014 where it really
occurred in like the first half of
January of 2015. So, so for me, in order
for it to really feel like the low in
June
and for me to actually flip and say, you
know what, the bare market doesn't have
to last until October, I would need to
see a a capitulation,
you know, below 60K and and and you
know, maybe down into the I mean, I
don't want to put out prices, but you
know, in on on par with prior bare
markets, right? And and when you look at
at prior bare markets, you can see that
we've had 94% drop and an 80 and then an
87% drop and then an 84% drop and then a
77% drop. And so if you gave us if
Bitcoin gave us something in line with
that, then I it would be a fool to
remain a bear, I think, at that point.
But it's hard when you're only down 50%.
Because if you're thinking about like
how this has progressed, we've gone from
94% drop to then 87 to then 84 to then
77.
So for me to then go from say 77 to 52,
that might be a little too optimistic,
right? it might be a little too
optimistic to call that the the the bare
market low. But if it were to go to like
in the 60% draw down or 70% draw down,
then you have to start thinking a little
bit more critically. Now, the next part
of this is to say you don't have to wait
to buy Bitcoin to make money. You know,
you don't have to time the low. And I
can assure you I'm not gonna time the
low. I have no intention on trying to
time the low in in 2022.
I first bought Bitcoin in the bare
market in June and I felt like a
right? And and I you know why I felt
like a was because I was making I
I told people I was buying, but then I
made bearish videos and people are like,
"Well, you know, you're still bearish."
And when the market went back up above
back above the 200E moving average,
people started dunking again. And I was
like, well, yeah, I was maybe I'm wrong,
but at least I'm making money. And then
FTX happened, and I was right, but
there's a difference between being right
and making money, right? So, I was right
about the low, but I I bought in June,
so it didn't matter. I still lost money
when the market went down because I
don't short Bitcoin.
So, in the short term, I felt like a I I
felt like an idiot. People were saying,
"Oh, you were right." I was like, "So
what? I'm down 25%."
But then eventually it didn't matter,
right? Eventually it didn't matter. So I
think arguably the time to start
accumulating Bitcoin is often in the
second half of midterm years, usually
starting with the capitulation into the
June low. Okay. Now, in 2018, the
capitulation into the June low uh was
was around the time that I started
buying uh back then, maybe a little bit
later because I honestly I don't even
think I look I barely looked at the
markets in the first half of 2018
because that was when I was finalizing
my dissertation. I didn't really care,
right? I mean, it looked like a bare
market, it smelled like one, it walked
like one, it just looked like a bare
market to me and it was kind of
demoralizing and I'm like, you know
what? I'll see you guys later this year.
And then around like Q3 2018, I started
to buy Bitcoin also like an idiot. I
started to buy altcoins. And and I
remember I remember looking at the
market back when Bitcoin was over here
like two years later and and looking
back at my buys in 2018 and I was like,
man, I bought a lot of altcoins and I
bought a lot of Bitcoin and I would have
been a hell of a lot better off if I
just stuck with Bitcoin, you know,
because most of the altcoins I bought,
not all of them, I think there's one or
two that actually bottomed out and did
do well in 2019 without going back down
to the lows. Uh, but I remember looking
at that in in 2021 and being like, you
know what, if instead of buying altcoins
through the bare market, you bought
Bitcoin, you likely would have
outperformed a lot of the guys that
bought altcoins.
And then if Bitcoin goes euphoric, then
if you want to wrestle with the altcoin
market, you could. But until that time,
you're probably just better off sticking
to Bitcoin. Now, that doesn't mean
there's not a few altcoins here or there
that are doing well. You guys know there
are some of them. I'm not oblivious to
that, but it doesn't change the overall
market trend. So, for me to say for me
to sort of declare
the October low invalid, I would need to
see Bitcoin not only capitulate below
the February low, but to go 30% below
it. Right? If that were to happen, then
I would come out on on um come out and
say right away the October low is off
and and we're front running it and
October would then be a higher low. But
with where we are right now, like I mean
we're still in June, it's hard to make
that call. It's hard to make that call
because what we could see is we could
simply just see a sweep of the prior low
and then a rally back up for a few month
for a couple months kind of like what
happened in 2022 and and kind of like
what happened in 2018. So my guess is
that a low will form in June. You will
get a counter trend rally in July
that may persist into August and then a
correction in the stock market will
cause Bitcoin to form its market cycle
bottom in Q4. Now, here's an interesting
thing and and I haven't mentioned this
yet, but we're getting far enough on
into the midterm year where it's
probably worthwhile to talk about. You
guys know the similarities now between
2018 and and 2026. I'm sure you know
them by now. If you don't know them by
now, then you're you're sleeping under a
rock, right? Because it it's extremely
similar. Low in February, a low in June
with a with a a lower high in May. Same
thing, right? A low in February, a low
in June with a lower high in May. It's a
very similar structure. Okay. Now, and
by the way, if you're if you're if you
haven't liked the video or subscribed to
the channel, please do that. I I would
appreciate it. I don't know if you guys
are are into that kind of stuff, like
liking the video. I don't typically tell
you guys to go smash the like button,
but I am trying to get to a million
subscribers. Only like 4,500 away. So,
that'd be kind of cool to get to a
million right around the time that the
uh that the bare market potentially is
over. So, let's see if let's see if we
can make that happen. And I would
appreciate you guys subscribing and uh
and giving the video a thumbs up. So, um
what I would say is
the sort of the elephant in the room.
Okay, the elephant in the room is this.
In 2018, the lows were February,
late March, early April, and then June.
So far, what is it in 2026?
February, late March, early April, and
now June.
The elephant in the room is that in 2018
we didn't break down until November,
right? So I'm like, is there a chance
that we're all just sitting here waiting
for an October low? It doesn't happen.
People then FOMO back in and then we
drop in November. That's a possibility,
but it it's still not my base case. It's
still not my base case. I think that
about a year-long bare market makes
sense. But what what keeps me on my toes
is the fact that in 2013 the bare market
lasted from November 2013 to January of
2015. So it lasted slightly longer than
a year. So again, when we're looking at
a distribution of the probabilities,
I would say the most likely month for a
low is October. But that doesn't mean
you can't have a low in June and that
you can't have a low in January. It just
means at the current time they're not
the most likely outcomes. If Bitcoin
were to crash to 40K this month, then
the odds of the low being in June go up
astronomically.
If the low just holds at 60, then
there's there's a chance that's the low,
but the jury would still be out, right?
Like we would still have to wait to know
for sure, you know? So that those are my
thoughts about this. And and I I mean I
think that hopefully that makes sense to
everyone and
you know we'll just take it one week at
a time. Like I don't I mean I'm here I'm
I'm being as transparent as I can be.
Just trying to take it one week at a
time. You know I mean if it ends up I
mean honestly this drop right now is 15%
this week. The pandemic crash was 33%. I
mean we're only it's only Wednesday, you
know. And I guess I guess one way that
the low could be June is if this QT
ending bare market 2019 comparison plays
out. Like if we just sort of drop down
into June like way down here, which
again is not my base case. I'm not
calling for a pandemic crash, but I'm
just saying look if I mean if it plays
out, I'd be foolish to remain a bear
after that. I can remain a bear if we
just kind of hold at 60. I don't think I
can remain a bear if we go to 40. I I
wouldn't be able to remain a bear at
that point. So, it's okay to be a bear
in a bare market, but when the metrics
reset, you have to ask yourself, all
right, has something changed? Let's go
take a look at at some of the onchain
metrics. Okay, so one is the supply of
Bitcoin in profit or loss and and it's a
pretty interesting indicator. Usually
after these cross, you start looking for
the market cycle bottom. Uh that'll be
happening relatively soon on the next
update. It might have already happened.
I might need to go a little bit lower.
Uh but it it should be happening soon.
If you look at at the MVRV Zcore, you
know, that's currently still above zero,
I believe, but historically market cycle
lows occur after it goes below zero. I'm
just waiting on the chart to load. Here
you go. So after it goes below zero,
that's historically where the market
cycle bottoms occur. If you take a look
at the onchain risk indicator that we
have, which basically looks at a
normalized, it normalizes all the
onchain metrics that I'm that I'm
loosely looking at. So it normalizes
between the pure multiple, the MBRV
score, the MVRBZ score, transaction
fees, the terminal price, minor cap to
thermocap, and the market cap to thermal
cap ratio. And historically, you want to
look for it to come down to around this
0.1 level. And once you get around
there, you're really close to the low in
the market, right? You're really close.
Doesn't mean you're going to get it
exact, but you're really close at that
point to the low in the market. And
currently, the onchain risk is 216. So
again, we're getting close, but you
know, we're we're we're not quite there.
The other thing is the running one-year
ROI.
That's currently at around 0.589.
And historically, you want to see it
really kind of drop below 04 or so, uh
maybe.3 before you can really start to
say, all right, maybe that low is is in
fact in. But look, I mean, again, is now
the time to sell Bitcoin in a
capitulation into June? Probably not,
right? because there likely will be a
rally in July. But I just want you guys
to kind of look back at at at March, at
April, at May, and see that it was just
a counter trend rally that gave bulls a
false sense of security. And now we're
right back to where we were in early
February, right? Like nothing has
changed. Markets have given back
essentially all of those gains. And look
at this. We have had our date with
Destiny. One potential outcome, by the
way, is a sweep of the low and then a
weekly close maybe back above the 200E
moving average as we try to hold that. I
I wouldn't be surprised if that happens
where it plays out like 2018 where you
sweep the low but then you get the
weekly close back above the 200E moving
average. That would be a perfectly
plausible scenario. There's other
plausible scenarios as well, but that
would be one that I would I would
certainly uh be considering um as as
things go on. And of course, altcoins
are are getting hammered as well. Uh
obviously, Bitcoin dominance is is
taking a big hit here. But listen, in
this is more like 2019 in terms of the
mechanics between all Bitcoin pairs than
2018. And that is when we kind of saw
something like this. The thing though is
that when Bitcoin enters into a new bull
market, you'll likely see Bitcoin
dominance then rally back up and sweep
the prior high. So the most likely
outcome for dominance is to not, you
know, is to maybe continue this pattern,
but whenever the bull market does
return, you'll likely see Bitcoin
dominance kind of come back up and then
sweep the prior high like it did in the
cycle before. Okay? But that sweep of
the high that could be a year away. It
could be two years away. But the point
is that you're not going to have a
durable alt season or anything like that
until Bitcoin has a euphoric rally.
That's the point. So, yes, dominance has
has struggled recently. One of the
reasons it's struggled. I mean, it is
struggling because Bitcoin is going down
more than alts. And maybe it's due to
the idiosyncratic risk of of micro
strategy. I don't know. I'm just and
I've talked about that before. It could
be that the other other parts of the
market don't really have that risk uh
the same way that Bitcoin does. But I
think that one of the main reasons is
because of stable coin dominance. Right?
And if you look at USDT dominance plus
USDC dominance, as I said many times,
after you have a breakout from a range
like this, that first high is not
normally the high. You would expect us
to take out that high. And I think
stable coin dominance will take out that
high. Another chart to look at is
Bitcoin USD divided by USDT dominance.
And you can see that it tends to bottom
out around the same level, right? And
you can see where we are with respect to
those levels. The other thing is if you
look at the valuation of Bitcoin against
gold, my argument was that Bitcoin would
likely get rejected at its bare market
resistance band against gold. And what
would likely happen is it would come
back down here to the lows, right? So,
it swept the highs. Why not come back
down to the lows, which I think it
probably will, which means Bitcoin will
likely drop about another 30% against
gold this year. That could be a
combination of Bitcoin going down and
also gold going up or back up. Or maybe
Bitcoin goes down quicker than gold. I
think gold might find a low sometime in
the next month or two before then
trending back up. Um, so that those are
my thoughts as it relates to crypto. I
know the market's brutal and and it
might stay brutal a little bit longer,
but if you think about it, the four-year
cycle remains intact. And I know a lot
of people don't like it, but it's the
best thing we have, right? And rather
than fight it, why not defer to it until
until it proves us wrong? And when the
4-year cycle does prove us wrong,
then we're like, "All right, it it's
it's different now." But until that
happens, I I find that more money will
be made betting that the four-year cycle
remains intact than lost. And I think a
lot of money will be lost, betting that
the four-year cycle will break.
Eventually, it probably will, but when
it does break, it'll probably be for the
wrong reason. It'll probably be because
you have some type of global recession
or something that that would be what
breaks it. It probably wouldn't be a
super cycle, right? I don't think it
would be a super cycle. It would be
breaking for the wrong reason. So, I
would say be careful what you wish for.
It's like how people wish that Bitcoin
would decouple from the stock market and
then whenever it does decouple, it
decouples in the wrong direction. So, I
would say let's hope the four-year cycle
remains intact because if it doesn't,
that might mean something that you
really don't don't want it to mean. Um,
yeah. I mean, this guy said it right.
Trade the market you have, not the
market you want. Obviously, we would all
be happy if we could look at the chart
and and and Bitcoin could start going
higher, but that's not the market we
have, right? the market we have is is
look, we're looking at this capitulation
into the June low. The 200 week moving
average is probably going to put up a
little bit of a fight here. I do not
think the February low is necessarily
safe from being taken out. I do not I I
think it is possible that we could take
out that low in the month of June, but
this would be the month to do it, right?
you get your big drop and and you can
see when you look at the prior drops how
you'll you'll form like a massive wick
down and then that wick will then form
the low for like the next couple of
months or so. So look for that. Look for
that wick load to to sort of show up and
then when it does show up then maybe
sort of pivot to being like all right
while the bare market will likely
continue we'll probably have sort of an
intermittent rally in the month of July
maybe August before we kind of get to
the finality of of the um of the bare
market. So
uh
let's see. Do you guys have any
questions for me?
Do you buy Bitcoin or gold? So, I think
gold will bottom first. You might
actually find Bitcoin and gold putting
in a low around the same time, but
there's a good chance that later in the
year, gold will put in a higher low,
Bitcoin would put in a lower low, and
then that would be the market cycle
bottom.
Is 60K a good time to start accumulating
Bitcoin? I would say that look for the
June low and then after that tends to be
the the the time to start DCA. But I
told you guys at the beginning of the
year, just ignore Bitcoin for the first
half of the year, right? Just ignore it.
Pretend like it doesn't exist and and
buy other things and then after the
after the first half of the year, well
then take a look because the first half
of the year is just going to be riddled
with counter trend rallies. They're
going to make you believe it's over and
it's not. So I would say it's not a
price, it's a time. And usually you just
look for the June load form and then you
DCA after that.
If I had more time and less
responsibility, family and stuff, would
you trade the counter trend? Probably
not. I mean, I just I've got other
things to do. I don't want to waste my
life trying to time counter trend
rallies and I even if I did I probably
wouldn't be very successful at it.
Um
we got a decent number of people
watching on YouTube about a little less
than 5,000. Make sure you guys subscribe
and give the video a thumbs up if you
have not. I've got about five times as
many people watching as likes. Just kind
of it's a that that that's a it's a
pretty big ratio there. A really small
ratio, I should say.
What was my dissertation on? It was on
um molecular dynamic simulations of
radiation or no it was on radiation
damage of ceramics using molecular
dynamic simulations and institute
transmission electron microscopy. Um
the stream marks the near-term bottom.
Yeah. I mean no like seriously and I've
said this before like sell when they say
I'm an idiot and buy when they say I'm
right. And honestly, if you do that,
you'll that's probably the only
indicator you need
if we're being honest.
What if the business cycle ends in
October and then the stock market
crashes? There's a chance, right? I'm
not going to I'm not going to say it
can't happen, but um that's why we got
to go one step at a time, right? One
week at a time, one month at a time. We
look at the data that comes in and you
know, I mean, we do the best we can, but
if if Bitcoin's trading sub 60K,
you know, especially if it's like 50,
40, or even in the 30, I mean, it would
be really hard to be bearish on it. I
mean, at that point, I think I just go
down with a ship. Like, I'd probably buy
it and go down with a ship if it's going
down. I mean, it'd be hard it'd be hard
not to. And you know why is because
every cycle there's a reason not to buy.
But Bitcoin topped to within one week of
prior tops based on the ROI from the
low. So if you look at the ROI from the
low,
you can see that Bitcoin this past cycle
topped on day 1,62.
And in the cycle before that, it topped
on day 159. And in the cycle before
that, it topped on day 1,068. So it
literally tops to within one week. And
if it bottoms to within one week, then
you're talking about an October low,
right? So last cycle bottomed on day
1424. The cycle before that bottomed on
day 1432. If you split the difference,
that would be day 1428.
So uh let's let's think about this.
Let's just do some math here. All right.
When was the low? It was what? November
when was it? It was November
21st.
So
what is 1428 days after November
21st, 2022.
So that would put you October 19th
would be but it probably won't be then.
Um
but that would be if you split the
difference between the last two cycles
it'd be October 19th. I actually tend to
think it'll be in the first half of
October. That would be my guess. The
other thing to consider is if you look
at Micro Strategy,
you look at Micro Strategy last cycle,
it took Micro Strategy uh let's just
take a look.
So,
see yeah, if you look here, so last
cycle, Micro Strategy, it took it 98
weeks to bottom and 98 weeks after Micro
Strategy's top. Would you care to guess
when it is? it would be the week of
October 5th, 2026. So maybe there's a
method to the madness, you know, like I
who's to say there's not. And you got
Micro Strategy, if that's cyclical, it
would put the low in October. And and
you got Bitcoin, sort of a one-year bare
market, that would put the low in
October. So I think you got to be
open-minded to that being the low in
October.
Do you think there's a chance next cycle
there won't be an all-time high? Uh,
anything's possible. Um, but even if
there's not an all-time high, it doesn't
mean you can't make money trading the
potential low. I was talking with a guy
on Twitter recently, and I was trying to
explain the four-ear cycle, which often
doesn't go well when people are already
convinced that it's wrong. But you can
see that the four-year cycle exists in
the stock market for a long time. Lows
approximately every four years. 62, 66,
1970, 1974, 1978, 1982. And his his
retort was that, oh well, these are
lower lows and and they're not always
higher lows. But the four-year cycle
does not predict the price of the low.
It predicts the time of the low. It does
not tell you if it's a higher low or a
lower low. It just tells you when it's
going to happen. And that would be the
midterm years. So, we got to be careful
about, you know, sort of assigning the
the the idea that you can't have a low
or the four-ear cycle is not intact
because it's a lower low or a higher low
or whatever. I mean, the four cycle just
tells you when Bitcoin bottoms. It
doesn't tell you what price it bottoms
at. Right now, we're we're we just
tagged the 200E moving average. So, in
fact, this time was not different,
right? And and you know every every
cycle Bitcoin first goes to the first it
falls through the 50 week, right?
First it goes to the 50,
then you go to the 100
and then you go to the 200
and this time was not different. And is
it possible that we go below it? Yeah, I
mean we still have we have time to
potentially go below it. Um,
we'll see. I mean, you know, things are
getting pretty low.
If it's if it plays out like 2018, you
should find a low around 60 plus or
minus. So, we'll see. We'll see where it
we'll see where the low ends up being.
Um, and and just take it one day at a
time. It looks like it looks like we we
sort of wicked below the 200 week
already because we went down to about
61.3K
and the 200 is at 61.8. So we already
went $500 below it.
What do I think of the Clarity Act or
Bitcoin reserves being floated? I think
all that stuff is noise and it does not
deserve our undivided attention that
people give it.
Why am I not watching the NBA finals
right now? That is an excellent question
and honestly I do not have a great
answer for you.
But I will probably sign off here to go
watch the fourth quarter. So, uh, the
third, we're about 2 minutes left in the
third. You got the New York Knicks 69,
San Antonio Spurs, 71. Um,
should be an interesting end of the
game.
Linux or Windows? Definitely Linux.
Um,
how's the newborn doing? She's doing
okay.
She's about 3 weeks old.
I just got her to sleep, actually. Like,
I got her to sleep and I was like, "All
right, I got to go do a stream.
She should sleep until about 2:00 a.m. I
think.
Who gets out of or should we buy at the
bottom? That's your That's your
prerogative. I I think treasury
companies will will bleed to Bitcoin
over the long haul. So, Bitcoin is the
is the apex asset in crypto. everything
else just bleeds to it eventually. So, I
I wish it the best of luck, but it it's
not it's not something I'm focused on.
Any thoughts as an R on the RSI as an
indicator to side bottoms? The problem
with RSI is that it's it's such a soft
indicator. It's a lagging indicator by
definition. And and you know, here's the
issue is that we're basically at the
lows, but yet the weekly RSI is still
higher than it was in February. So, this
is the issue, right? Is is is that and
so I the RSI is not always a great
indicator in order to like understand
like where the lows occur. In fact, the
weekly RSI topped in March of 2024,
right? I mean, so and it was lower highs
after that. So I would argue and even
last cycle, right, the RSI bottom in
June on the weekly and then yet Bitcoin
still went lower in November. So I don't
really put a lot of faith in the RSI.
And if if you look at at say uh Bitcoin
dominance as an as an example, um one of
the things you'll notice is that Bitcoin
dominance weekly RSI topped in October
2023 when it was at like 53%. But then
dominance went all the way up to 66%. On
lower highs by the weekly RSI. So I
think I think the RSI is one of the
softer indicators. I think it's okay to
use it as confluence with like other
things, but I don't think you should
rely on the RSI to tell you what's going
to happen in the market.
Um,
let's see. What other questions do you
guys have?
What if stocks nuke now and we get an
all red summer? I think you might get a
you might get a correction by stock
soon. I mean, I think June June seems
like you probably will see a small like
a a small correction in stocks
relatively soon. A lot of times when
Bitcoin starts capitulating, stocks then
start to show a little bit of weakness
um you know, as as the weeks go on.
Yeah, maybe that's why you look at
divergences on RSI and not just the like
the absolute value of it.
What's your accumulation strategy for
Bitcoin? You usually usually you start
usually what I do is I start buying like
around the June low, right? I'll just
start accumulating um and hope for the
best, right? I mean, that's usually what
I do.
The old selling man walk away. Yeah, it
worked again.
Daily RSI is at five. I mean, kind of
just what we just said, right? Like
you can get bounces. I mean like this is
a pretty big this is a pretty big drop
by Bitcoin, right? I mean
I mean look at prior bare markets I
guess. I mean, the daily RSI in January
hit really low
and then we still went it was actually
the lowest it was for the entire bare
market in January and yet Bitcoin went
lower for like eight or nine months
after that. So that's why I don't why I
don't put a lot of faith in the RSI.
I'm not saying it can't be useful for
short-term trades. Maybe it could be,
but that's not my that's not my forte.
See, I think the bull case is this for
Bitcoin. I think by the end of the year
if if you truly if the four-year cycle
plays out and and you get all this money
from the IPOs, you get sort of like a a
post IPO hangover in stocks,
then I think a lot of that money might
then
maybe find its way back over to Bitcoin
because by that point,
like look at the valuation of Bitcoin
against the stock market.
So look at this. If you look at the bull
market support band or I guess you know
in this case the bare market resistance
band you can see that we just rallied up
to the uh to the bare market resistance
band
right and got rejected and and this is
what often happens right you can see we
got rejected by it and when you value
Bitcoin against the S&P already took out
the February low right that's kind of
telling it already took out the February
low when you value Bitcoin against the
stock market. And you can see multiple
times in bare markets, Bitcoin will get
rejected on the bare market resistance
band against the S&P 500. And you can
see that this time was in fact not
different.
Make sure you guys subscribe. Give the
video a thumbs up if you haven't.
Also, feel free to check out into the
cryptoverse premium. By the way, uh I
believe we figured out where we're going
to have the ITC conference. I believe
it's going to be I'm like 90% sure it's
going to be in Miami and I'm pretty sure
it's going to be in late November. So,
for anyone interested in that, again,
it's not going to be like a lot of the
conferences in crypto that you go to.
It's going to be a lot different, right?
It's not just going to be treasury
companies talking their talk, okay? It's
going to be trying to, you know, really
talk about the markets, talk about
what's going on, and it's not just going
to be a crypto conference. Okay? So, if
you if you're interested in it, um, if
you're interested in it, I mean, you
know, feel free to to go to
benjaminc.com,
right? And I believe if you go to
conference, if you put in your
information over here, uh, then we'll
we'll send you an email once we have the
details. I know it's not everyone's
thing, you know, uh, conferences aren't
aren't going to appeal to everyone, but
it is a it is an interesting way to, you
know, to meet some people and kind of
like meet like-minded people, I guess.
Yeah. I So again, this is not set in
stone, so don't book a plane ticket, but
I think it'll be the 21st of November. I
think don't book a plane ticket, but
just maybe mark it on the calendar as
70% chance that's when it'll be.
Um, would you invest in SOL and ETH or
just Bitcoin? I mean, I think usually
starting with Bitcoin makes the most
amount of sense.
How does the asymmetric contile work
compare with the realized price or
balance price? Yeah, that's a good
question. Um, so basically, let's let's
pull it up. That's actually a good idea.
So the indicator
the asymmetric quantile regression
basically if you're not familiar before
we get into this indicator it's an
extension of the work I did in 2020 so
in 2020 and also the extension of the
power law work by Giovani but if you
look and uh the quantile work by plan C
if you look at at the regression bands
that I this was published in 2020
back in 2020 I noticed the asymmetry And
you can tell it's asymmetric
because look at the look at the how the
gap between the high and the low
regression band converges. You see that?
So we noticed the asymmetry back six
years ago. All I did was refit it to
more data and fill in the quantiles in
between. That's all I did. Right? That's
all I did. So when you do that, you get
a chart that looks like this. So, right
now we're basically at near the floor of
the 1%. But the floor of 1% doesn't mean
you can't go below it. In fact, we just
did. We just did go below it. What it
means is that you don't spend a lot of
your time there. Now, what we have down
here is called the golden pocket. That's
what I'm calling it, the golden pocket.
And the golden pocket shows you where
prior dislocations in the price of
Bitcoin occur. So the last time we had a
dislocation where Bitcoin went below Q1%
the the first percentile. So I'm just
going to call it Q1 was back in the FTX
crash. Okay. So that's that first line
right here. So in that case if Bitcoin
were to go to around 58K
that would correspond to the to the
relative levels it was at during the FTX
crash around 58K.
And that's kind of interesting because
if it were to go to 58K, that would
literally be sweeping the low from
February, which is exactly what it did
in 2018 on the June low. Okay, so 58K
would be essentially the equivalent of
the FTX crash in terms of where it was
on this on this support. Now, what's the
next one? So, the next one down is the
March 2020 crash. So if Bitcoin were to
go to 52K
then comparing to where it went in 2020
that would be the best comparison in
terms of like assuming that the floor
the structural support is rising that
would be kind of the same dislocation
level would be the March 2020 crash.
The next one would be the August 2015
crash. Okay. Now, if we were to have a
dislocation as large as that one, then
you would be looking at a Bitcoin price
of around 48K, which is around where the
ETF launched. And then finally, and I'm
just going to be honest with you guys, I
included the wick from August of 2010.
All right? Now, I don't think it makes
sense, and I'm not talking about this
green wick that went all the way down
here. I'm talking about this wick went
that went down that found support at the
bull market. I included it not because I
necessarily know for a fact that was a
liquid wick. It probably wasn't a liquid
wick and maybe I shouldn't include it.
But the reason I included it, the reason
was because
it would currently correspond to around
40k and 40k just happens to be where the
balance price is. So if you look at if
you look at the balance price of
Bitcoin, well, it's actually at 38.65K.
So, and the reason I say that is because
if you look at all prior bare markets,
Bitcoin bottomed below the onchain or
below the balance price, right? It goes
below the realized price and then below
the balance price. You can see that in
2011, you can see it in 2015. In fact,
sorry, in 2014. In 2014, we didn't go
below the balance price or sorry, we
didn't go below the realized price until
October. We didn't go below the balance
price until January. And then in uh
2018, we went below the the realized
price in November. And then we went
below the balance price in December. And
then in 2022, we went below the realized
price in June, which is kind of where we
are now. And and then we went below the
the balance price in November. So right
now, the realized price is around 53.8K.
So if Bitcoin were to go below the
realized price, that would give you some
more confidence that the low is in. And
if it were to go below the balance
price, that would essentially be
equivalent to, if not slightly worse,
than the August 2010 dislocation, right?
And so I don't know how low it's going
to go. Q1 does not mean you do not go
below it. It it just means that
historically you only spend 1% of your
time below it. Now, the reason if you go
to the paper, the reason why I called it
a working paper, and I'm I'm being as
transparent as I can. I'm not trying to
pull a fast one over on anyone here.
The reason I'm calling it a working
paper is because I think in order to get
the best fit for predicting a future
market cycle top, I need to refit the
data after I believe that the low is in.
Once I believe the low is in, I will
refit it because if I don't refit it,
then I think it'll be a little bit too
optimistic in predicting where the next
peak will be.
So that's my goal is to refit it after,
you know, a in a few months, refit it.
It's only going to tweak things
slightly, but I think that'll help in
the next bull market. I think it'll help
in the next bull market, which is why I
would do it. The last time I I created a
curve like this, the regression bands,
was in 2019, and it was after the bottom
was in in 2018 bare market. It was after
it. So ideally, I really debated. And
I'm like, do I publish this before the
low? Do I wait until after the low? I
was like, I want to go ahead and publish
it before the low. But the problem is
that if you only fit the data to where
Bitcoin to to sort of May of every
midterm year, two out of the three
years, the Q1 percentile it predicted by
May of that of that midterm year,
Bitcoin went about 20% lower than that
before it actually bottomed. And so then
when you refit the data at the end of
the bare market, it then kind of pulled
that quantile down. So what it means and
one of the times it was optimistic. It
was it or sorry it was too pessimistic.
Bitcoin bottomed above Q1. We've already
gone below Q1. If it were to go 20%
below Q1 that would basically put you at
around 50K around the around 49K around
the ETF price.
We don't have to go below the balance
price. And I I want to be clear about
that. And I'll tell you why. I'll tell
you why it's not a requirement. All
right? Because I know some people it's
going to bug them. One reason we don't
necessarily have to is if you look at
the price
of Bitcoin divided by the realized
price, sorry, you look at the price of
Bitcoin divided by the balance price.
The last three cycles we've gotten
progressively
not as bad. Right? So in 2014 we went
well below the bounce price. In 2018 we
only went slightly below it on daily
closes. In 2022 we went below it but
only on an intraday wick. So that's why
I want to be clear. Do not marry the
balance price because I could see it
potentially.
It might not. I mean, it could go below
it, but if we get to October and we're
trading near it, I I think you'd be a
fool to then be like, "Oh, no, it
technically has to go below it, right?"
I I don't think you should do that. So,
watch it, be open to it, don't marry it.
Hopefully, that answered your question.
Admin, why deleting my comment? there's
a good chance the admin's not deleting
your comment. There's a good chance that
what's actually happening is you're
putting in a word that we have is
automatically blocked because there's a
lot of scammers and like bots that'll
post certain words, you know, and and if
you then mention those words, it just
automatically removes the comment just
because it makes it a lot easier to
filter through all the scams, right? So,
like a lot of things that the scammers
will do is they'll be like, "Oh, join
this group." Or or they'll say certain
things um like, "How you 100x your
money?" like you I those words are
automatically blocked. So if you're
finding that your comment is getting
deleted, I would say just rephrase the
comment because it's probably just a
word that you're putting in there.
So you think the So you refit a few
months? Yeah, I think I think I'll refit
in a few months and then I'll just
publish the paper in its finality and be
like this is the best I'm going to do.
Right now it's a working paper just to
show you guys what I'm working on with
it. But I'll I'll probably update it in
about in about 4 months
and then I'll just and then I'll let it
and then I'll let it be for the next
cycle. I won't touch it after that.
Again, make sure you guys subscribe,
give the video a thumbs up. Um, we also
still have the sale on ITC premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
probably going to end that sale actually
really soon. Maybe the end of this maybe
this weekend. Um, all right. So, we've
been going for an hour. Uh, we got about
4,000 people watching on YouTube.
Um, so we have a decent decent showing
here.
There's dozens of us left.
What's your take on Pokemon? The the
funniest thing is telling my kids that
find Pokemon cards the coolest thing.
That that's what I also thought was cool
when I was their age. I never thought
that would be a thing. I mean, I'm sure
that that's probably true for a lot of
us, right? Traded Pokemon back when we
were like 10 years old and now you see
10-year-olds liking it again.
Though, it does make me wonder if the
last time Pokemon was really popular was
when I was 10. That was around the uh
the the big crash.
Why would you not trade the next counter
trend rally? Uh because I'm smart enough
to know how dumb I am and I I do not
think I would be able to accurately time
it.
Someone says they think the channel
hitting a million subscribes will a
million subs will coincide at the
bottom. That's the rumor. That is in
fact the rumor. Currently at around
995,000.
So, you know, I would say if you guys
want the bare market to end, it's your
fault because
we're still not at a million.
All right, I gotta go because as much as
I would like to look at the Bitcoin
price all night, I would actually much
rather go watch the end of the first
game in the NBA Finals. So, that's more
important to me tonight than continuing
to stay here and and talk about Bitcoin
because there is in fact way more to
life than than Bitcoin. So, I'm going to
wrap it up. I'm going to go watch the
end of the game. Subscribe, give the
video a thumbs up, and I will see you
guys next time. Bye.